
@Borovsky2016 found that 24-month-olds were faster to fixate on a named
word when the word came from a denser semantic network. They computed
semantic density for each child, instead of drawing from some norms.
They note repeatedly that looks to the distractor increase for items
from sparser semantic networks. They read the increased looks to the
distractors as interference: The distractor images show greater
interference on words from sparser networks. So, the advantage of words
from dense networks is more finely characterized as 1) more faciliation
by the denser network and 2) reduced interference from the competing
image. "In both tasks, real-time comprehension was facilitated for
higher density items, whereas lower density items experienced more
interference."

@Borovsky2016 analyzed the vocabularies in a
sample 24-month-olds and identified semantic categories that were
relatively dense or sparse for each child. These children were faster to
fixate on a named word when the word came from one of the denser
semantic networks.


@Borovsky2016Leverage taught novel words to 24-month-olds and found that
word recognition was greater for words from denser semantic networks,
but I don't think the data support that conclusion. They base this claim
on the looking behavior 3000--3700 ms after target onset, which is so
far removed from the crucial word recognition moment that it must
reflect a different behavior entirely.
