
Specific aims
========================================================================

Individual differences in language ability are apparent as soon as
children start talking, but it is difficult to identify children at risk
for language delay or disorder. Recent work suggests word recognition
efficiency—that is, how well children map incoming speech to words—may
help identify early differences in children’s language trajectories.
Children learn spoken language by listening to caregivers, so children
who are faster at recognizing words have an advantage for word learning.
This view is borne out by some studies suggesting that children who are
faster at processing words show greater vocabulary gains months later
[e.g., @Weisleder2013].

We do not know, however, how word recognition itself develops over time
within a child. This is an important open question because word
recognition may provide a key mechanism for understanding how individual
differences emerge in word learning and persist into early language
development. Without a developmental account of word recognition, we
lack the context for understanding individual differences in lexical
processing. Thus, even the big-picture questions are unclear: Do early
differences persist over time so that faster processors remain
relatively fast later in childhood? Or, is such a question ill-posed
because the magnitude of the differences among children shrink with age?
I plan to address this gap in knowledge by analyzing three years of word
recognition data collected in a recently completed longitudinal study of
160 children.

In particular, I will examine the development of *familiar word
recognition*, *lexical competition,* and *fast referent selection* (the
ability to map novel words to novel objects in the moment). Through
these analyses, I will develop a fine-grained description of how the
dynamics of word recognition change year over year, and I will study how
differences in word recognition performance relate to other child-level
measures (such as vocabulary and speech perception). 

Specific Aim 1 (Familiar Word Recognition and Lexical Competition)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

**To characterize the development of familiar word recognition and
lexical competition, I will analyze data from a visual world paradigm
experiment, conducted at age 3, age 4, and age 5.**

In these eyetracking experiments, children were presented with four
images of familiar objects and heard a prompt to view one of the images.
The four images included a target word (e.g., *bell*), a semantically
related word (*drum*), a phonologically similar word (*bee*), and an
unrelated word (*swing*). I will use a series of growth curve analyses
to describe how children’s familiar word recognition develops year over
year. Of interest is how individual differences at age 3 persist into
age 5. I will also examine the children’s looks to the distractors to
study the developmental course of lexical competition from
similar sounding and similar meaning words. Changes in sensitivity to
competing words can reveal how lexical competition emerges as a
byproduct of learning new words.

Specific Aim 2 (Referent Selection and Mispronunciations)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

**To characterize how fast referent selection develops longitudinally, I
will analyze data from a looking-while-listening mispronunciation
experiment, conducted at age 3, age 4, and age 5.**

In these eyetracking experiments [based on @WhiteMorgan2008;
@MPPaper], children saw an image of a familiar object and an unfamiliar
object, and they heard either a correct production of the familiar
object (e.g., *soup*), a one-feature mispronunciation of the familiar
object (*shoop*), or a novel word unrelated to either image (*cheem*).
The correct productions test familiar word recognition and the nonwords
test fast referent selection. The mispronunciations test the child’s
phonological categories by showing whether the child permits, rejects,
or equivocates about mispronunciations.

I will use growth curve analyses to study how children’s responses to
the three word types change over time. I will examine familiar word
recognition and fast referent selection to determine which feature of
lexical processing better predicts vocabulary growth. I plan to examine
dissociations or asymmetries in these forms of processing within
children as a way to empirically assess the claim that "novel word
processing (referent selection) is not distinct from familiar word
recognition" [@McMurray2012]. Finally, I will examine how individual
differences in vocabulary and speech perception predict responses to
mispronunciations and novel words.

Summary
------------------------------------------------------------------------

This project investigates how word recognition develops during the
preschool years. There has been no published research studying word
recognition longitudinally after age two. Findings will show how
individual differences in lexical processing change over time and can
reveal how low-level mechanisms underlying word recognition mature
longitudinally in children. These findings will have translational value
by studying processing abilities that subserve word learning and by
assessing the predictive relationships between early word recognition
ability and later language outcomes.
