
(PART\*) Afterword  {#part-end .unnumbered}
=======================================================================

A needle in a self-organizing haystack
=======================================================================

When I give my "elevator pitch"" for word recognition research, I
sometimes employ a cheeky analogy of a needle in a haystack. Imagine,
for the sake of discussion, that the information processing mechanism
behind word recognition were just a naïve table search. Think of
autocomplete on a phone or a spellchecker. Over the course of
development, children's lexicons grow larger in size and yet they get
*better* at recognizing words. Children with larger lexicons have to
find a needle in a larger haystack—yet this apparent liability is an
advantage. That is why the search analogy is naïve. Children become
better at recognizing words as they learn more words because they
extract regularities and discover similarities among words and develop
more efficient lexical representations. The haystack develops regularity
and becomes easier to search. In fact, try to pull out a single needle
and a tangle of other very similar needles come with it.

The vagueness of the phrase "more efficient lexical representations" is
something of a trap. For example, we might think like the one efficient
way to store lexical items is to posit that children lazily encode
lexical information on demand. That *underspecification* hypothesis has
been discredited by children's sensitivities to mispronunciations and
with their ability to use part-word information during word recognition.

Let us take for granted that children know the words they know in full
phonetic detail. How might learning more words make word recognition
search problem even easier? On the basis of the two studies in this
project, I think the distinction by @Leach2007 between *lexical
configuration* and *lexical engagement* is crucial. If we adopt the
analogy that the lexicon is a mental dictionary, a word's configuration
is the information found in its dictionary entry: sound, meaning,
syntactic roles, and orthography. A word's engagement is its connection
to other words, like competitors or cohorts or semantic relatives. We
know from the research into representations that a word's phonetic
configuration should be generally well-specified. What children develop
and what turns an increase in words into an advantage is lexical
engagement. The development of word recognition for preschoolers is
about engagement, children learning the connections among related words
and harnessing those similarities to their advantage.

